Welcome! In this lecture we are going to be adding materials to these
balls, so that we actually give them some color. And we're also going to be learning
how to make linked copies, so all of these are made from the same linked copy,
and editing a property of just one of them will edit
the properties of all of them.
So I want to show you how we can add a little bit of color into
our lives, I mean our scenes. I want to
change the color of this sphere. Now, if we click
on the Sphere and have a look at the Inspector, you'll notice there isn't anything talking
about color except down here, this default material. So
perhaps that's an indication that we want to actually do something with the material, but we
can't edit it, at the moment, and I'll show you why. You need to create a new material.
So let's right-click in the Assets folder, go to Create,
Folder. So I'm going to create a folder to hold all
our materials, and, very intriguingly, [Laughs] I'm going
to call it Materials, and then, I'm going to right-click and Create a new Material.
So right-click, Create again, and this time, Material is what we want.
And I'm just going to call it Basket
Ball. So that's the BasketBall material, and,
for now, we are just going to click in the Inspector, so when you
have... Let's just go back a second. Click on the BasketBall material, go to the
Inspector, and you'll see that there is now an Albedo
thing here. Now what you want to click in on the color of the Albedo, so that's white
at the moment, and then, we can change it, using this Color Picker, to
whatever kind of obnoxious basketball color we want. I'm going to go for violet,
like so. And then, this...we need to associate
this material with our sphere, and we do that very much like we did with the script,
we just drop it onto the Sphere that we want the color of.
OK, so you notice obviously this only updates the Sphere, this one
sphere, and I'm going to call this Sphere BasketBall, by renaming
it in the Inspector. Remember to hit Enter, because otherwise the name won't go through.
So we've got this one BasketBall, but otherwise, we'd have to go through and update the Sphere.
But what happens if I've got another sphere in this scene? You know, what if I've
got four spheres? And it can just go on and on.
Maybe I've got loads and loads of spheres, and we will have, you know, infinite basketballs,
so we can't just update everything manually. So let's get rid of these
Spheres. I'm going to select them and then Delete.
And what we can do is use something that Unity calls a prefab. So I'm
going to Create a new Folder for these so called prefabs, before
I tell you what they are. So in these, what we can do
is essentially drag an object, from our Hierarchy, into a folder,
and this creates a new object called a prefab, which is essentially a
template for creating new BasketBalls. So
if you click on it, you see down here it says the name of the file, Basket
Prefab...Basketball Prefab. And if you look
in the Inspector, it tells you all the properties of this prefabbed object. We can see that it has the
Rigidbody, it also has the BasketBall color. So now, if I drop
these into the scene, and let's move them around so that we can
actually see where they are. I drop
multiple ones in the scene. You see they all have these properties. OK,
well this is all very well and good, so we can put
more of the same thing in the scene and just have a few properties
out. But the real power that comes with the prefabs
is being able to edit this prefab directly. So,
for example, if I went in and I
changed what text.. what material I was using,
so I could change to using a different color perhaps,
down here, and suddenly everything is changed,
all of them are changed at once.
I could disable one of them from using Gravity,
and you can see that it's in bold, when I've disabled it here, because it's no
longer linked with the prefab. But if I edited that on
the prefab itself, like so, and then, I go back to
the BasketBalls, you'll notice that now none of them
uses Gravity. And if we hit
play we can ensure that, we can check. There you go, none of them are using Gravity!
So if I click on the prefab again and
enable Gravity, then there's just that one
ball, which I had over-ridden, that isn't using Gravity.
Time for your challenge! I'd like you to change the angular
friction of these balls. So what do I mean by that? Let's just have
a little quick look! The Angular Friction or the Angular Drag
is this property here, on the Rigidbody. It basically means
how much drag do we have on the ball rotating. OK,
so change the angular friction. Make a high angular friction for
just one ball and see what effect it has, when you preview the effect.
Then, make it the same for all the balls in the prefab.
What happens? I'd be interesting to see! Share your results in
the discussions. OK pause the video and have a go!
OK welcome back! Let's have a go at
doing this assignment! So the first thing I want to do is
re-enable Gravity, so that we are back on the prefab essentially.
I can right-click this and do Revert Value
to Prefab, so that is what I'm going to do.
Now what am I going to do? I'm just going to change the Angular Drag for
one of these balls. Which one would be most interesting? I think the one in the center, and that's
at a really ridiculously high Angular Drag like 300.
There we go! And now if we hit play, let's see what happens
with that. Yeah, so it absolutely doesn't
move, but what would be more interesting is the angular drag of these balls on the outside,
like this one, so let's put that one really high.
Let's hit play!
So you see, it's not moving anywhere because it can't roll;
it gets a lot of Angular Drag, a little rotational drag, it's also
called. So let's just revert these back to our prefab values.
Go and select the center ball, as well,
Revert to Prefab Value. Now, if we click on our prefab
itself, we can change all of them, at once, to being 300.
So I'm going to have a look, hit play,
and suddenly, these balls aren't going anywhere,
except this one on the outside, which I think I haven't reverted properly.
Revert Value to Prefab. OK, so
we successfully changed all the properitees at once,
just by editing the prefab. Now you can start to see the power
of using the Unity Editor! See you in the next lecture!